# Haikuna-Matata
---
## A Machine Learning Haiku Generator

### A project developed by Holly Stotelmyer (@hollabaq86), Noah Guy (@NoahRGuy), Dennis Marchetti (@dmarchet) and Joan Petersohn (@jepetersohn)


## Description
---

Haikuna-Matata generates completely original, correctly formatted haikus based on user input. A user types an input word into the console when running the program, and the program will return a 5/7/5 style haiku concerning whatever input the user put in.  Haikus will meet the following requirements, moving from Basic to Advanced as the program learns over time.

Basic Haiku Requirements
---
All Haikus are defined by the following structure
* Each haiku has 3 lines.
* Each haiku follows the following syllable construction for each line
* 5 syllables for the first line
* 7 syllables for the second line
* 5 syllables for the third line

Intermediate Haiku Requirements
---
All Haikus must
* Make Sense.

Advanced Haiku Requirements
---
Stretch Goals for the machine to learn
* Each haiku has a _kireji_, or "cutting word" at the end of one of it's lines. Since no clear english equivilant of this exists, it shall either be represented by a stressed syllable at the end of the line or with ellipses "..."
* Each haiku can be generated by two words, which are the focus of the poem and are juxtaposed in said haiku. Whether they are opposing, supporting or coexisting(no impact) is randomly determined.
* Given no user input, the haiku generated will be centered around a randomly generated word or pair of words.

## Installation & Usage
---
[Python 2.7](https://www.python.org/downloads/) is required to run this program. If your computer does not use Python yet, click the link and download Python 2.7 before attempting to run this program.

To use this program, simply clone the repository to your computer and navigate to its directory.

A virtual development environment has also been set up for this project, which has all of the current and needed versions of all modules needed to run this program.  Run the following from the terminal to load the pre-defined environment and set all necessary environment variables.

$ pip install virtualenv
$ source env/bin/activate
$ export APP_SETTINGS="config.DevelopmentConfig"
$ export DATABASE_URL="postgresql://localhost/haiku"

To return to the normal world and exit the virtual environment, simply enter "deactivate" in the terminal.  Whenever you are ready to re-load the virtual environment, simply re-enter the above commands.

To open the web page locally, simply launch the app.py file:

$ python app.py

Navigate to http://localhost:5000/.  There you can enter in a word and Haikuna Matata will generate a haiku for you

```
Haiku (Created by Haikuna Matata):
This is a sample
Haiku made all by myself
Bask in its glory!
```

To close your local server, type CTRL+C

